So as mentioned at the end of the last lecture would be nice if we could validate the user input.
Something very important in any app you build.
Whilst you should still validate input on the server as the front end can't always be tricked you can
greatly enhance your experience by altering validating the input here.
For example you want to make sure that none of the fields here is empty and that the e-mail address
actually is a valid email address.
So let's go back to our app component to the html file to the template and see how we can add such validators.
Now since we used the template driven approach we can only add them in the template.
And here we can for example at required to our user input now required is a default HVM attribute.
You can add to the input here however Engler will detect that.
So it acts as a selector for a built in directive shipping with angular and it will automatically configure
your form you could say to take this into account make sure that now this will be treated as invalid
if.
Well it is empty.
And on the e-mail we can for example therefore also add required.
And there also is an e-mail directive you can add.
Now E-mail is not a old aged female attribute.
It still is a directive.
And keep in mind required is only treated as a selector for the angular directive here.
An email is simply another directive made available by angler which makes sure that this is actually
a valid email address.
So now we save this and we have a look at our form here and as submitted we can still submit it because
we haven't set up anything which would prevent us from doing so.
But if we have a look at it and check the valid attributes you see it is false.
And if I enter something here and something here.
So it's filled but the e-mail address is still not valid.
You see that's still valid is false.
Only if I turned this into a valid email address you're only in this case.
Now we submitted.
Now you see valid is true.
So now Ingall Truex the state of this form and correctly informs us or gives us a chance of clearing
it wherever this form is valid or not and actually does not only work on form level if we dive into
the actual controls you'll see that on the e-mail the control.
We also have a valid attribute which is true.
So it tracks this on a per control level.
And then also on the form level Now there also is a natural place where it tracks this and helps us
if we expect this email element here in the H.T. market.
You'll see that it adds a couple of classes because the forum clock control class here is by us it's
a bootstrap class to give it some styling but Engy dirty energy touchtone energy Vallet.
These are not classes at a bias anti-energy at the beginning makes it pretty clear who is responsible
for adding these classes.
Now watch these classes.
If I remove the sign here.
You saw that Engy invalid was added and N-G valid was removed.
So angler dynamically add some classes giving us information some CSSA classes giving us information
about the state of the individual control here wherever it is dirty or not.
So wherever we did changed the initial value wherever it touched or not.
So where were we clicked into it or not and whether it is valid or not.
Now with that information we can style these inputs conditionally.
So let's the next lecture take advantage of the fact that angler Truex the state of the validity and
of deform overall and change the styling and the behavior the user experience with that form